# Technical Problem-Solving - Week 09

* Screenrecording
  [Download and install Open Broadcasting Studio software](https://obsproject.com/) to your computer.

  (If you are using a school lab computer, first follow these instructions to install Homebrew as non-root).
  https://github.com/TheEvergreenStateCollege/upper-division-cs-24-25/blob/baa898cddafce1aa4fb77e433a32ea5bc8a49c38/docs/HomebrewInstall.md?plain=1

  Then run
```
brew install --cask obs
```

  Connect to your YouTube account. (If you don't have a YouTube account, you'll need to create one to upload screenrecording videos).

* Warmup Problems, in a language of your choice

13:40 to 14:00 read through the problem
https://github.com/TheEvergreenStateCollege/upper-division-cs-24-25/blob/main/tps-24au/week-09/PassingYearbooks.md

Take a ten minute break, pick among yourself to be interview / interviewee. Flip a coin, etc.

14:10 to 14:30 share your screen, and talk out loud through the problem.

Brute force solution, what is Big-Oh?
Write pseudocode.
Think of optimized solution, write pseudocode.
Start typing out some code.

  * Submit your notes at past of today's workshop. [TPS Workshop 09]()

For homework due next Monday, you'll record yourself working through a practice problem.
[TPS HW 09](https://canvas.evergreen.edu/courses/6729/assignments/128014)
 
* Organic Farm Dataset
  * Ask for feedback from farm students on bill-of-materials and system design document.
  * What workshops / lectures can you ask the different faculty to give in Computer Club to help you understand the work?
    * especially Paul and Melissa
  * What roles and responsibilities are there?
    * Who has interest and skills that you can ask to take on each role or responsibility?
  * What can you work on for the next draft of the bill-of-materials, system design document, or code to start analyzing data?

* Hexapod Robot Prep for Next Quarter
  * Read Freenove manual https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Freenove/Freenove_Hexapod_Robot_Kit/9cecae77f95f874933757120615a8873c33683bf/Tutorial.pdf
  * Help load software and prepare the software on Raspberry Pi
  * Help assemble the legs
  * Help test out camera
  * Batteries are arriving before Friday
