# Technical Problem-Solving Class Notes
Week 02, Monday Morning, 2024-10-07

## From Last Week
Reminder: keep your mind relaxed but focused.

Like the strings of a musical instrument, you want it tuned just tight enough that you're able to play it and have fun, but not so tight that you feel you must look up solutions on the internet, ask AI chat, or it stops being enjoyable.

The tension and discomfort of a musical string produces beautiful music. Likewise, you will learn to solve problems with beautiful logic by exercising the skills in this class.

The problem-solving roadmap from Cracking the Coding Interview. For now, must focus on the first three steps until you become very comfortable. (Ask a pair programming partner, TA, or the instructor if you're ready to optimize in Step 4)

1) Read the problem. What details are important, and what are part of the story / likely to be there to add some color?
2) Example: work through specific cases, like the test cases given to you in Leetcode or Hackerrank. Can you think of a heuristic (rule-of-thumb) or simple English language algorithm that would work for one of the specific cases?
3) Brute force: think of a simple, easy-to-explain, correct algorithm, usually one that loops through all the possibilities building up the optimal solution. Try not to get too fancy and get the most efficient algorithm at this point, just something that works, gives you an easy win.
4) Optimize: patience, grasshopper.

* Longest Common Prefix
	* how would you solve a related problem, Longest Common Suffix? for example
		* `longestCommonSuffix(["dogstar", "racecar", "car"]) --> "ar"`
	* the shortest string in the list limits how many prefixes you have to search through.
		* think of these "triangular" cases for longest common prefix, for example
		* `longestCommonSuffix(["p", "pl", "plu", "plus"]) --> "p"`
		* `longestCommonSuffix(["plus", "plu", "pl", "p"]) --> "p"`
		* does this help limit how much search you have to do for each string in the input list?
	* last time, we discussed an English language solution for the problem.
## Sorted Map

A map is a data structure that associates keys of one type (usually called `K`) with values of another type, possibly the same (usually called `V`). It is sometimes called an associative map, or a dictionary, because it is designed to make lookup very easy. It is often implemented with a hashtable, because hash functions are known that can operate in constant time ($O(1)$)

However, in a hashtable, there is no order to the key:value pairs. Sometimes we want both fast lookup, and a way to iterate through the key:value pairs in order, such as finding a predecessor or successor, the items immediately before or after  a key in a certain order.

This is useful, for example, in your phone's address book. Perhaps you misspelled someone named "Chad" as "Chaz", so if you search for the key "Chad" it would help to show the few keys before and after it as well.

How can we add order to a hashtable, where the hash function doesn't respect order in its goal to evenly distribute keys, seemingly randomly, across all the buckets?

This is an example of a key skill from first year DSA: combining two data structures, allowing for some redundancy in order to get the best (most efficient operations) of each one. We call this new ADT (Abstract Data Type) a *SortedMap*, and 

In this case, can you think of a data structure that respect order, perhaps one that is slower than $O(1)$ lookup?

S