# Technical Problem-Solving Class Notes
Week 05 - Friday, 2024-11-01

## Prefix Trees

The word game Scrabble (and related games like Boggle, Bananagrams, Wordle) give each player a fixed set of letter tiles from the English alphabet, A through Z, with repetitions, and ask them to form words from them. Often they add to words from other players on a shared board.

We won't model the board, but our goal is to make a Scrabble "solver", an ADT that could be useful to automate playing the game or making an "AI" player. In our case, given a set of letters, what are all the words that contain those letters (and possibly others)?

We will test our approach using the Webster American English dictionary available in the public domain from Project Gutenberg.

In Core DSA, we learned about binary search trees and hash maps. Is there a way to improve on these with a prefix tree? If you know about suffix trees or would like to study them, you can consider them too.

[Prefix trees (also called tries)]()
[Suffix trees]()
```
public interface ScrabbleSolver {

	public void addWord(String word);
	
	public List<String> findWords(Set<Character> tiles);

}
```

[Adapt this code to download the dictionary.](https://github.com/TheEvergreenStateCollege/upper-division-cs-24-25/blob/main/dsa-24au/week-04/dl-dictionary.sh)

[Adapt the code to start your prefix tree solution.](../code/)


## Data Analysis

### Datasets
* Organic Farm worker hours
* Organic Farm produce harvesting and weight
* Organic Farm produce sales
* Edible plants on campus, their location and species
* Livestock (cattle) immunizations and health
### Typical Sizes
* 100s of rows; 1000s; 100,000s, 1M, 10M, 100M, 1B, ?
	* How is this related to $n$ in your Big-Oh analysis of running time
* 100s of columns; 1000s; 100,000s; 1M?

## Questions
to guide designing your CRUD operations.

Consider each row in a dataset as one ADT, and the entire dataset as a whole as another ADT.

In the machine learning / AI paradigm, the dataset is our *training data*, and part of our Create/Update operations will be to train a (neural network) model with parameters. Part of our Read operations will be to run inference using our model to predict answers / classifications from new data.

This *test data* is either held in reserve from our original data, to validate our model or let us know when we can stop training because it is "good enough", or it is completely new data that is collected after our model training, that our partners or collaborators would like answers for.

Usually, your Create new rows for everything in your dataset.
Delete to clean up data.
Update to sort or otherwise optimize your data structures
Then Read to answer a given question.

Some questions and related algorithms and operations:
* What is the row with the maximum / minimum column A value in this dataset?
* What is the average value of column A across all rows in this dataset?
* Perform linear regression to fit one dependent variable column ($y = f(x)$) vs an independent variable column ($x$) to find a line.
	* Use the line to make a prediction for a new $x$ not in the dataset
* Perform multi-linear regression with many dependent variable columns
	* [Multi-linear regression and viz in Python](https://aegis4048.github.io/mutiple_linear_regression_and_visualization_in_python)
* Convert each row into an $m$-dimensional vector based on its $m$ columns, then
	* Cluster into $k$ clusters based on some similarity measure
		* Euclidean distance, L2-norm, "similarity"
		* k-means clustering algorithm
	* How many clusters are there?
	* Given a new data row not in our original dataset, which cluster is it most likely to belong to?
		* e.g. species identification of mushrooms or plants by their images

## Architecture Diagram

How do you summarize the project at a 10,000 foot view and a 10 foot view? (High-level summary, and detailed view of the major parts)?

How can you diagram the system, decompose it into parts, and show how the parts are related?

What parts are dependent on other parts?
## Display Technologies

Some properties of our ideal display technology:
* low-power, to run off batteries / solar
* high-contrast, to be readable in sunlight
* durable / waterproof, or shielded 
* anything else?

e-Ink Panels
* price tags at big box retailer stores (Best Buy, Lowes)

OLED Panels

## Farm Robots

[Hexapod Robots](https://intorobotics.com/11-diy-hexapod-robots/)

[Kevin Ochs Golem]()

[FarmBot CNC farming](https://farm.bot/)

What other robotic farming frameworks, projects, approaches, or technologies do you know about or can you imagine?
## Wireless Internet Technologies

* [Waveform Panel Antenna for 5G Internet](https://www.waveform.com/pages/mimo-antenna-launch)
	* AT&T Internet Air
	* T-Mobile 5G Internet
* [NYC Mesh](https://www.nycmesh.net/)
	* [Hardware Docs](https://wiki.mesh.nycmesh.net/books/3-hardware-firmware)
* [Tucson Mesh](https://www.tucsonmesh.net/)

Questions to consider:
* What is MIMO?
* How does it compare to the 502.11ac standard?
* Why would one use a MIMO antenna versus a point-to-point or point-to-multi-point antenna setup such as Ubiquiti's Litebeam products?

### Single Board Computers

[Raspberry Pi 5]()

[Raspberry Pi Zero W]()

Arduino
* ATmega
* Uno

ESP32 boards

Teensy

### Parts Distributors and Materials Sources

Donations
* from team members and their families
* from companies, e.g. Intel in Oregon
Buy online
* Digikey
* Octopart search
* McMaster-Carr
* Mouser
* eBay
* [Public Surplus in WA State](https://www.publicsurplus.com/sms/all,wa/browse/home)
### Scope
How much time do we have to work on final projects?
What would be a realistic goal for the end of fall quarter? Winter quarter? Spring quarter?

It could be design documents, bills-of-material (BOM) and lists of parts with approximate prices and potential sources.

It could be physically prototyping different parts of the system identified above.
## Next Steps in Collaborating 
What would be some useful next steps or conversations we could have with the students and faculty in other programs (Practices of Farming, Edible Campus)